# ZeitPunkt [ˈʦaɪ̯tˌpʊŋkt]

Tools to work with GeoJSON LineStrings with given time components.

## GeoJSON Format

A standard LineString is used to represent the coordinates. Besides that, the time for each point is stored in a `time` array as property of the GeoJSON Feature.

A minimal GeoJSON instance looks like this:

```
{
  "type": "Feature",
  "geometry": {
    "type": "LineString",  // or: "MultiPoint"
    "coordinates": [       // array of [lng,lat] coordinates
      [ 10.0304153141,      48.4343540454     ],
      [ 10.030424406259081, 48.43435113062047 ],
      ...
    ]
  },
  "properties": {
    "time": [              // array of UNIX timestamps
      1433907300000,
      1433907300088,
      ...
    ]
  }
}
```

## Installation

```shell
npm install zeitpunkt
```

The library provides some useful command line wrappers to pipe in GeoJSON and transform it. You can easily use the `zeitpunkt` executable after installing it as global module:

```shell
npm install -g zeitpunkt
```

## Usage

```javascript

```

## Command Line








zeitpunkt provides a command line tool to work with GeoJSON linestrings with time components. In general it consumes GeoJSON data from `stdin` and prints the result to `stdout`. Most commands support the following options:

```
Standard Options:

  -h, --help                  output usage information
  -a, --array                 Export as JSON Array instead of newline-separated datasets
  -i, --indentation <spaces>  Set indentation level (default: 0)
  -b, --geobuf                Import and Export as Geobuf
  --from-geobuf               Import from Geobuf
  --to-geobuf                 Export as Geobuf
```

Use the `--help` flag on each command to get a list of all additional options.

### Transform (No-op by default)

```shell
zeitpunkt transform [options]
```

Reads GeoJSON from `stdin` and transforms it according to the options, e.g. return as [Geobuf](https://github.com/mapbox/geobuf).

### Simplify Linestring

```shell
zeitpunkt simplify [options]
```

Simplifies a given GeoJSON linestring using [simplify-js](https://github.com/mourner/simplify-js).

### Import CSV

```shell
zeitpunkt from csv [options]
```

Creates a GeoJSON linestring from a given CSV file.

## Compatible Tools

A short list of tools that produce or consume GeoJSON linestrings with time components:

* [transportation](https://github.com/fnogatz/transportation): Generates vehicles' positions as GeoJSON linestrings by GTFS public transportation data
* [LeafletPlayback](https://github.com/hallahan/LeafletPlayback): Interactive display of GeoJSON multipoints with time components *(Note: You have to rename the Feature's type generated by zeitpunkt to `MultiPoint` instead of `LineString` to properly work with LeafletPlayback.)*
* [timetraveller](https://github.com/fnogatz/timetraveller): Interactive display of GeoJSON linestrings with time components
* [ObsJSON](https://code.google.com/p/xenia/wiki/ObsJSON): GeoJSON based observations/data-centric minimal schema

Please open an issue to add more compatible tools.
